Release notes for 1.7 (#7933)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.7.x/announcing-1.7/change-notes/index.md

   ([Issue #24379](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24379))
- **Removed** the `pilot_xds_eds_instances` and `pilot_xds_eds_all_locality_endpoints` Istiod metrics, which were not
accurate.
 ([Issue #25154](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25154))

## Installation

- **Added** RPM packages for running the Istio sidecar on a VM to the release.
 ([Issue #9117](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/9117))
- **Added** experimental central Istiod support for [single cluster](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Central-Istiod-single-cluster-steps) and [multi-clusters](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Central-Istiod-manages-remote-data-plane)
- **Fixed** an issue preventing `NodePort` services from being used as the `registryServiceName` in `meshNetworks`.
- **Improved** gateway deployments to run as non-root by default.
 ([Issue #23379](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23379))
- **Upgraded** the CRD and Webhook versions to `v1`.
 ([Issue #18771](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/18771)),([Issue #18838](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/18838))

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Improved** Kubernetes strategic merge is used to overlay IstioOperator user files, which improves how list items are handled.
 ([Issue #24432](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24432))
```

---
title: Change Notes
description: Istio 1.7 release notes.
weight: 10
---

## Traffic Management

- **Added** config option `values.global.proxy.holdApplicationUntilProxyStarts`,
which causes the sidecar injector to inject the sidecar at the start of the
pod's container list and configures it to block the start of all other
containers until the proxy is ready.  This option is disabled by default.
 ([Issue #11130](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/11130))

## Security

- **Fixed** an issue preventing the use of source principal based authorization at Istio Gateway when the Server's TLS mode is ISTIO_MUTUAL.

> - **Added** Enable the workload cert rotate automatically in VM

Reviewer 2: **Enabled** the workload certificate to rotate automatically in virtual machines.

 ([Issue #21366](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/21366))

- **Deprecated** installation of telemetry addons by `istioctl`. These will be disabled by default, and in a future release removed entirely. More information on installing these addons can be found in the [Integrations](/docs/ops/integrations/) page.
 ([Issue #22762](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22762))

- **Removed** the `pilot_xds_eds_instances` and `pilot_xds_eds_all_locality_endpoints` Istiod metrics, which were not
accurate.
 ([Issue #25154](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25154))

- **Added** Prometheus metrics to istio-agent.
 ([Issue #22825](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22825))
- **Fixed** Prometheus [metrics merging](/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus/#option-1-metrics-merging) to not drop Envoy metrics during application failures.
 ([Issue #22825](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22825))

## Installation

- **Upgraded** the CRD and Webhook versions to `v1`.
 ([Issue #18771](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/18771)),([Issue #18838](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/18838))

> 

Reviewer 2: I think the blank lines should be removed.

Author: do you mean, for lint purposes? lint is happy with them...

Reviewer 2: If the linter is happy with them, it probably doesn't matter. We just don't usually have the blank lines is all.

- **Improved** gateway deployments to run as non-root by default.
 ([Issue #23379](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23379))

- **Added** RPM packages for running the Istio sidecar on a VM to the release.
 ([Issue #9117](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/9117))

- **Fixed** an issue preventing NodePort services from being used as the `registryServiceName` in `meshNetworks`.

## istioctl

> - **Added** Allow proxy-status for non-K8s workloads with --file

Reviewer 3: I think it would be good if we can sort or group these together for all the categories. This will help to identify what all the new features are `Added` and what is `Fixed` in a particular category. eg:

**Installation**
* Added
* Deprecated
* Enabled
* Fixed
* Improved
* Removed
* Upgraded

Reviewer 2: Side note for release notes tooling -- it would be nice to standardize on what words we want to support.

> - **Added** Allow proxy-status for non-K8s workloads with --file

Reviewer 2: **Added** Allow proxy-status for non-K8s workloads with `--file`

---
title: Change Notes
description: Istio 1.7 release notes.
weight: 10
---

## Traffic Management

- **Added** config option `values.global.proxy.holdApplicationUntilProxyStarts`,
which causes the sidecar injector to inject the sidecar at the start of the
pod's container list and configures it to block the start of all other
containers until the proxy is ready.  This option is disabled by default.
 ([Issue #11130](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/11130))

## Security

- **Added** Enabled the workload cert rotate automatically in VM
 ([Issue #24554](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24554))

> - **Added** support for creation of CSRs using ECC based certificates.

Reviewer 4: This was also done in 1.6.0 so I don't think you have to add it here. However, if you do I'd change it to

```suggestion
- **Added** support for ECC workload based certificates when the root CA is also using ECC certificates.
```

Author: +1 for removing it then

Reviewer 5: +1

Author: Removed.

 ([Issue #23226](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23226))

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

-  **Improved** Trust Domain Validation to validate TCP traffic as well, previously only HTTP traffic was validated"

```

- **Fixed** an issue preventing the use of source principal based authorization at Istio Gateway when the Server's TLS mode is `ISTIO_MUTUAL`.

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

-  **Added**  SDS support for Client Certificate and CA certificate used for TLS/mTLS Origination from Egress 
    Gateway.
  ([Issue #14039](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/14039))
  
```

Reviewer 7: This is a good one to add. Can you link istio.io doc if we have one?

 ([Issue #23379](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23379))

- **Upgraded** the CRD and Webhook versions to `v1`.
 ([Issue #18771](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/18771)),([Issue #18838](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/18838))

## istioctl

- **Added** Allow proxy-status for non Kubernetes workloads with `--file`

- **Added** a configuration file to hold istioctl default flags. Its default location (`$HOME/.istioctl/config.yaml`) can be changed using the environment variable `ISTIOCONFIG`. The new command `istioctl experimental config list` shows the default flags.
 ([Issue #23868](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23868))

- **Added** `--revision` flag to `istioctl operator init` and `istioctl operator remove` commands to support multiple control plane upgrade.
 ([Issue #23479](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23479))

- **Added** `istioctl analyze` now warns if deprecated mixer resources are present
 ([Issue #24471](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24471))

- **Added** `istioctl x uninstall` command to uninstall Istio control plane.
 ([Issue #24360](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24360))

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion

-  **Added** `istioctl analyze` now warns if DestinationRule is not using CaCertificates to validate server identity.

```

---
title: Change Notes
description: Istio 1.7 release notes.
weight: 10
---

## Traffic Management

- **Added** config option `values.global.proxy.holdApplicationUntilProxyStarts`,
which causes the sidecar injector to inject the sidecar at the start of the
pod's container list and configures it to block the start of all other
containers until the proxy is ready.  This option is disabled by default.
 ([Issue #11130](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/11130))
- **Added** SDS support for Client Certificate and CA certificate used for [TLS/mTLS Origination from Egress Gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress-gateway-tls-origination-sds/) using `DestinationRule`.
  ([Issue #14039](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/14039))

> ## Security

Reviewer 7: @JimmyCYJ @nschhina Can you add a bullet for SDS support on Egress gateway with the issue number?

Reviewer 7: Oh I see it listed in traffic management.

 ([Issue #22825](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22825))
- **Fixed** Fix unexplained telemetry which affects Kiali graph. This fix increases default outbound protocol sniffing timeout to `5s`, which has impact on server first protocol like `mysql`.
   ([Issue #24379](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24379))
- **Removed** the `pilot_xds_eds_instances` and `pilot_xds_eds_all_locality_endpoints` Istiod metrics, which were not
accurate.
 ([Issue #25154](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25154))

## Installation

- **Added** RPM packages for running the Istio sidecar on a VM to the release.
 ([Issue #9117](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/9117))
- **Added** experimental central Istiod support for [single cluster](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Central-Istiod-single-cluster-steps) and [multi-clusters](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Central-Istiod-manages-remote-data-plane)
- **Fixed** an issue preventing `NodePort` services from being used as the `registryServiceName` in `meshNetworks`.
- **Improved** gateway deployments to run as non-root by default.
 ([Issue #23379](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23379))

> - **Improved** standalone operator to run as non-root by default.

Reviewer 8: Improved Istiod to run as non-root by default. https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/24961

The link for the standalone operator lockdown is: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/24960

Lock down the operator security context. https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/24963

- **Added** SDS support for Client Certificate and CA certificate used for [TLS/mTLS Origination from Egress Gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress-gateway-tls-origination-sds/) using `DestinationRule`.
  ([Issue #14039](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/14039))

## Security

- **Improved** Trust Domain Validation to validate TCP traffic as well, previously only HTTP traffic was validated. See the [design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yfYFp2Pw3-pPACYGRWQQdrEtroAunCD3fjOF9ZGtcrU/edit#heading=h.78z3fc6weip0) for details.
([Issue #26224](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26224))

- **Improved** Istio Gateways to allow use of source principal based authorization when the Server's TLS mode is `ISTIO_MUTUAL`.
([Issue #25818](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25818))

- **Improved** VM security. VM identity is now bootstrapped from a short-lived Kubernetes service account token. And VM's workload certificate is automatically rotated.
 ([Issue #24554](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24554))

## Telemetry

- **Added** Prometheus metrics to istio-agent.
 ([Issue #22825](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22825))

> 

Reviewer 9: - **Added** Metric customization with `istioctl`.
  ([Issue #25963](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25963))

- **Deprecated** installation of telemetry addons by `istioctl`. These will be disabled by default, and in a future release removed entirely. More information on installing these addons can be found in the [Integrations](/docs/ops/integrations/) page.
 ([Issue #22762](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22762))

- **Enabled** Prometheus [metrics merging](/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus/#option-1-metrics-merging) by default.
 ([Issue #21366](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/21366))

- **Fixed** Prometheus [metrics merging](/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus/#option-1-metrics-merging) to not drop Envoy metrics during application failures.
 ([Issue #22825](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22825))

> 

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion

- **Fixed** Fix unexplained telemetry which affects Kiali graph. This fix increases default outbound protocol sniffing timeout to `5s`, which has impact on server first protocol like `mysql`.
   ([Issue #24379](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24379))

```

- **Removed** the `pilot_xds_eds_instances` and `pilot_xds_eds_all_locality_endpoints` Istiod metrics, which were not
accurate.
 ([Issue #25154](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25154))

> 

Reviewer 10: - **Added** TCP Metrics and AccessLogs to Stackdriver.
 ([Issue #23134](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23134))

---
title: Change Notes
description: Istio 1.7 release notes.
weight: 10
---

## Traffic Management

- **Added** config option `values.global.proxy.holdApplicationUntilProxyStarts`,
which causes the sidecar injector to inject the sidecar at the start of the
pod's container list and configures it to block the start of all other
containers until the proxy is ready.  This option is disabled by default.
 ([Issue #11130](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/11130))

## Security

> - **Added** Enabled the workload cert rotate automatically in VM

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Added** Enabled the automatic workload certificate rotation on VMs
```

Author: This was improved somewhere else, please take a look again if you agree.

> - **Added** Enabled the workload cert rotate automatically in VM

Author: Done.

 ([Issue #24554](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24554))

- **Added** support for creation of CSRs using ECC based certificates.
 ([Issue #23226](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23226))

- **Added** SDS support for Client Certificate and CA certificate used for TLS/mTLS Origination from Egress Gateway.

>   ([Issue #14039](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/14039))

Reviewer 7: @JimmyCYJ @nschhina @myidpt Do we have a istio.io doc for this new feature? If so, let's link it here.

Reviewer 6: Yes we do, it's a "preliminary.istio.io" link right now since istio.io hasn't switched, can you point me to an example on how we add doc refs? The doc is here https://preliminary.istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress-gateway-tls-origination-sds/ feel free to add it if you know how

Reviewer 11: This should go into traffic management as its in destination rule. Please clearly mention the DestinationRule aspect.

Reviewer 6: @jwendell can you move this to Traffic mgmt and add `using DestinationRule.` to the end of the sentence? Thanks!

Author: Done.

Reviewer 7: It is a little misleading. Why is SDS support on Egress part of traffic management?

> - **Improved** Trust Domain Validation to validate TCP traffic as well, previously only HTTP traffic was validated

Reviewer 6: We don't have istio.io doc to explain this afaik

> - **Improved** Trust Domain Validation to validate TCP traffic as well, previously only HTTP traffic was validated

Reviewer 12: we can link the design doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yfYFp2Pw3-pPACYGRWQQdrEtroAunCD3fjOF9ZGtcrU/edit

> - **Improved** Trust Domain Validation to validate TCP traffic as well, previously only HTTP traffic was validated

Reviewer 11: Qualify this by saying applies only to sidecars

> - **Improved** Trust Domain Validation to validate TCP traffic as well, previously only HTTP traffic was validated

Author: Added a link to the design doc.

@rshriram Could you please write a complete suggestion of how you'd like it to be written?

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  ([Issue #26224](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26224))
  
```

Author: Done.

> - **Improved** Istio Gateways to allow use of source principal based authorization when the Server's TLS mode is `ISTIO_MUTUAL`.

Reviewer 5: Can we add the tracking bug or PR to the end of this?
@yangminzhu

Reviewer 12: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/25818

Reviewer 11: Should we be marking it as improved? when we have a CVE release note for this?

Author: Added the PR link (although ideally we should have an issue link).

Leaving this conversation open because I'm not sure what to do about @rshriram comment above.

Reviewer 11: I would mark it as Fixed because there is a CVE associated with it with score of 5.9.. And how do we link to the CVE here ?

Reviewer 13: I think we should call out that it was CVE with score that Shriram mentioned.

Reviewer 5: I think it should be "Fixed". @yangminzhu for the CVE release note link.

Reviewer 12: I think the problem here is we don't have any announcement (at least not on istio.io) for the CVE: https://istio.io/latest/news/security/

---
title: Change Notes
description: Istio 1.7 release notes.
weight: 10
---

## Traffic Management

- **Added** config option `values.global.proxy.holdApplicationUntilProxyStarts`,
which causes the sidecar injector to inject the sidecar at the start of the
pod's container list and configures it to block the start of all other
containers until the proxy is ready.  This option is disabled by default.

>  ([Issue #11130](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/11130))

Reviewer 14: Is our list or tool correct?  I'm fairly sure we did more than this 1 item in 1.7 for traffic mgmt.  cc @brian-avery

Reviewer 2: Hey @linsun [this](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/release-1.7/releasenotes/notes/24737.yaml) was the only one created for 1.7 with an area of traffic management.

Reviewer 2: Master has: 
```
24737.yaml
25746.yaml
25818.yaml
25678.yaml
```

Reviewer 2: Looks like [26001.yaml](https://github.com/williamaronli/istio/blob/release-1.7/releasenotes/notes/26001.yaml) added an "area: pilot". This isn't listed anywhere in the template. Everything else uses one of the specified areas. 

```
grep -h 'area:' * | sort | uniq
area: documentation
area: installation
area: istioctl
area: networking
area: pilot
area: security
area: telemetry
area: traffic-management
```

Reviewer 14: hmm, Also, there are ones under networking, e.g. https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/master/releasenotes/notes/add-sni-host.yaml.  Why do we have these many categories (networking, pilot, traffic management)?  Shouldn't be all under traffic management or Networking?

Reviewer 2: You're right. Looking at the 1.6 release notes, we had: 
    Traffic Management
    Security
    Telemetry
    Installation
    istioctl
    Documentation changes

So the networking and pilot ones are both excluded right now.

Reviewer 2: So 
```
dd-sni-host.yaml:area: networking
auto-mtls-headless.yaml:area: networking
delay-app-start.yaml:area: networking
dns-capture.yaml:area: networking
dr-analyzer.yaml:area: networking
dr-sds.yaml:area: networking
endpoint-before-pod.yaml:area: networking
ingress-named-port.yaml:area: networking
service-select-workload-entry.yaml:area: networking
xds-v3.yaml:area: networking
```

Are all missing.

Reviewer 14: DNS capture is something @rshriram removed recently.  let's remove it off the release note to avoid confusion.

## Security

- **Added** Enabled the workload cert rotate automatically in VM
 ([Issue #24554](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24554))

- **Added** support for creation of CSRs using ECC based certificates.
 ([Issue #23226](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23226))

> -  **Improved** Trust Domain Validation to validate TCP traffic as well, previously only HTTP traffic was validated"

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
-  **Improved** Trust Domain Validation to validate TCP traffic as well, previously only HTTP traffic was validated
```

> - **Fixed** an issue preventing the use of source principal based authorization at Istio Gateway when the Server's TLS mode is `ISTIO_MUTUAL`.

Reviewer 14: **Improved** Istio Gateways to allow use of source principal based authorization when the Server's TLS mode is `ISTIO_MUTUAL`.

> -  **Added**  SDS support for Client Certificate and CA certificate used for TLS/mTLS Origination from Egress 

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
-  **Added** SDS support for Client Certificate and CA certificate used for TLS/mTLS Origination from Egress 
```

  
## Telemetry

- **Added** Prometheus metrics to istio-agent.
 ([Issue #22825](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22825))

- **Deprecated** installation of telemetry addons by `istioctl`. These will be disabled by default, and in a future release removed entirely. More information on installing these addons can be found in the [Integrations](/docs/ops/integrations/) page.
 ([Issue #22762](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22762))

- **Enabled** Prometheus [metrics merging](/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus/#option-1-metrics-merging) by default.
 ([Issue #21366](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/21366))

- **Fixed** Prometheus [metrics merging](/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus/#option-1-metrics-merging) to not drop Envoy metrics during application failures.
 ([Issue #22825](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22825))

- **Removed** the `pilot_xds_eds_instances` and `pilot_xds_eds_all_locality_endpoints` Istiod metrics, which were not
accurate.
 ([Issue #25154](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25154))

## Installation

- **Added** RPM packages for running the Istio sidecar on a VM to the release.
 ([Issue #9117](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/9117))

> 

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
- **Added** experimental central Istiod support for [single cluster](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Central-Istiod-single-cluster-steps) and [multi-clusters](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Central-Istiod-manages-remote-data-plane)
```

- **Fixed** an issue preventing `NodePort` services from being used as the `registryServiceName` in `meshNetworks`.

- **Improved** gateway deployments to run as non-root by default.
 ([Issue #23379](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23379))

- **Upgraded** the CRD and Webhook versions to `v1`.
 ([Issue #18771](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/18771)),([Issue #18838](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/18838))

## istioctl

> - **Added** Allow proxy-status for non Kubernetes workloads with `--file`

Reviewer 14: This seems incomplete?  I don't get it.

Author: This is the PR: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/25627
@therealmitchconnors Could you please clarify the wording here?

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
- **Added** Allow proxy-status <pod> command for non Kubernetes workloads with proxy config passed in from the `--file` parameter.  https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-proxy-status

```

- **Added** a configuration file to hold istioctl default flags. Its default location (`$HOME/.istioctl/config.yaml`) can be changed using the environment variable `ISTIOCONFIG`. The new command `istioctl experimental config list` shows the default flags.
 ([Issue #23868](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23868))

- **Added** `--revision` flag to `istioctl operator init` and `istioctl operator remove` commands to support multiple control plane upgrade.
 ([Issue #23479](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23479))

> - **Added** `istioctl analyze` now warns if deprecated mixer resources are present

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
- **Added** `istioctl analyze` to warn if deprecated mixer resources are present
```

 ([Issue #24471](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24471))

- **Added** `istioctl x uninstall` command to uninstall Istio control plane.
 ([Issue #24360](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24360))

> -  **Added** `istioctl analyze` now warns if DestinationRule is not using CaCertificates to validate server identity.

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
-  **Improved** `istioctl analyze` to warn if DestinationRule is not using CaCertificates to validate server identity.
```

- **Improved** `istioctl validate` to check for unknown fields in resources.
 ([Issue #24861](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24861))

- **Removed** `istioctl manifest apply`. The simpler `install` command replaces manifest apply.
 ([Issue #25737](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25737))

## Documentation changes

> - **Added** support for auto generating release notes based off of a file present in the `releasenotes/notes` directory.

Reviewer 14: Does user care about this?

Author: I thought the same. This is an internal tooling improvement, not a user facing change.

> - **Added** support for auto generating release notes based off of a file present in the `releasenotes/notes` directory.

Reviewer 14: ```suggestion
- **Added** visual indication if a page has been tested by our istio.io automated tests.
```

- **Fixed** Prometheus [metrics merging](/docs/ops/integrations/prometheus/#option-1-metrics-merging) to not drop Envoy metrics during application failures.
 ([Issue #22825](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22825))

- **Fixed** Fix unexplained telemetry which affects Kiali graph. This fix increases default outbound protocol sniffing timeout to `5s`, which has impact on server first protocol like `mysql`.
   ([Issue #24379](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24379))

- **Removed** the `pilot_xds_eds_instances` and `pilot_xds_eds_all_locality_endpoints` Istiod metrics, which were not
accurate.
 ([Issue #25154](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25154))

## Installation

- **Added** RPM packages for running the Istio sidecar on a VM to the release.
 ([Issue #9117](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/9117))
- **Added** experimental central Istiod support for [single cluster](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Central-Istiod-single-cluster-steps) and [multi-clusters](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Central-Istiod-manages-remote-data-plane)
- **Fixed** an issue preventing `NodePort` services from being used as the `registryServiceName` in `meshNetworks`.

> 

Reviewer 8: please delete 62, 65 - extra whitespace.

- **Improved** gateway deployments to run as non-root by default.
 ([Issue #23379](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23379))

> 

Reviewer 8: **Improved** standalone operator to run as non-root by default.

Author: @sdake Is this an addition or a correction for the sentence above?

Reviewer 8: new sentence please.

Author: done, thanks. If you have an issue number let me know and I'll add it.

---
title: Change Notes
description: Istio 1.7 release notes.
weight: 10
---

## Traffic Management

- **Added** config option `values.global.proxy.holdApplicationUntilProxyStarts`,
which causes the sidecar injector to inject the sidecar at the start of the
pod's container list and configures it to block the start of all other
containers until the proxy is ready.  This option is disabled by default.
 ([Issue #11130](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/11130))

- **Added** SDS support for Client Certificate and CA certificate used for [TLS/mTLS Origination from Egress Gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress-gateway-tls-origination-sds/) using `DestinationRule`.
  ([Issue #14039](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/14039))

## Security

- **Improved** Trust Domain Validation to validate TCP traffic as well, previously only HTTP traffic was validated. See the [design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yfYFp2Pw3-pPACYGRWQQdrEtroAunCD3fjOF9ZGtcrU/edit#heading=h.78z3fc6weip0) for details.

> ([Issue #26224](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26224))

Reviewer 7: We can remove the design doc link here. We normally don't link Google docs in release notes. Also, the github issue below already has link to the design doc.

Author: It was not present before, it was added in a review before this one, I'll remove it again.

   ([Issue #24379](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24379))

- **Removed** the `pilot_xds_eds_instances` and `pilot_xds_eds_all_locality_endpoints` Istiod metrics, which were not
accurate.
 ([Issue #25154](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25154))

## Installation

- **Added** RPM packages for running the Istio sidecar on a VM to the release.
 ([Issue #9117](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/9117))
- **Added** experimental central Istiod support for [single cluster](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Central-Istiod-single-cluster-steps) and [multi-clusters](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Central-Istiod-manages-remote-data-plane)
- **Fixed** an issue preventing `NodePort` services from being used as the `registryServiceName` in `meshNetworks`.

- **Improved** gateway deployments to run as non-root by default.
 ([Issue #23379](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23379))

- **Upgraded** the CRD and Webhook versions to `v1`.
 ([Issue #18771](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/18771)),([Issue #18838](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/18838))

## istioctl

> - **Added** Allow proxy-status <pod> command for non Kubernetes workloads with proxy config passed in from the `--file` parameter.  https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-proxy-status

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
- **Added** Allow `proxy-status <pod>` command for non Kubernetes workloads with proxy config passed in from the `--file` parameter.  https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/commands/istioctl/#istioctl-proxy-status
```

 ([Issue #23868](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23868))

- **Added** `--revision` flag to `istioctl operator init` and `istioctl operator remove` commands to support multiple control plane upgrade.
 ([Issue #23479](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23479))

- **Added** `istioctl x uninstall` command to uninstall Istio control plane.
 ([Issue #24360](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24360))

- **Improved** `istioctl analyze` to warn if deprecated mixer resources are present
 ([Issue #24471](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24471))

- **Improved** `istioctl analyze` to warn if `DestinationRule` is not using `CaCertificates` to validate server identity.

- **Improved** `istioctl validate` to check for unknown fields in resources.
 ([Issue #24861](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24861))

- **Removed** `istioctl manifest apply`. The simpler `install` command replaces manifest apply.
 ([Issue #25737](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25737))

## Documentation changes

- **Added** visual indication if an istio.io page has been tested by istio.io automated tests.

>  ([Issue #23622](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23622))

Reviewer 16: Wrong issue.

```suggestion
 ([Issue #7672](https://github.com/istio/istio.io/issues/7672))
```
